#Not included in live site. Remove this line to re-include
---
layout: page
title: Geocoding
description: From text to coordinates
header-img: img/kiev_bg.png
filename: pg02
lang: en
---

Geocoding
=========
A main goal of this project is to establish workflows for the automated geocoding of place names. This allows for the creation of maps depicting the contents of the document being analyzed, and more significantly, reconciles the text entries with their modern equivalents in [GeoNames](http://www.geonames.org/), forming the basis of a historical gazetteer. Such a gazetteer allows for aggregate analyses of historical descriptions over time, analyses which would have been prohibitively labor-intensive without this infrastructure in place. It also allows for historical texts to become part of the larger linked open data ecosystem, which in turn enables broader creative re-use of historical documents.  
  
Our geocoding process used place names and administrative divisions in a query to the [GeoNames.org search API](http://www.geonames.org/export/geonames-search.html) to produce reconcile the entries in our text with the entities present in GeoNames. For approximately 35% of our entries, the query produced only one response, indicating that the combination of name and administrative division was sufficient for automatic reconciliation. For the remaining entries, manual intervention was needed to determine which of the places returned by our query was the place described by the text.  

Administrative divisions
------------------------
We used administrative divisions as a primary means of narrowing our search criteria because top-level administrative divisions are explicit in ~95% of entries. To create the bounding boxes, we either took the administrative seat of the unit as a center and searched in an 8&deg; by 8&deg; box centered on that city, or we used contemporaneous maps to establish more accurate, manual bounding boxes. The creation of the bounding boxes was relatively labor-intensive, but worthwhile, as it allowed for the automatic geocoding of ~250 entries, and are be usable in other projects using texts from the same time period.  

Name Variation
--------------
Many of the entries in our text source had slightly different names than their modern counterparts, either due to drifting language or the fact that some cities and towns were part of the Russian Empire in 1788, but are now part of independent nations who speak different languages. To deal with this, we used Geonames' "fuzzy search" option. This makes the search include locations whose names have a certain percentage of letters in common with the search term. In the script used, the value for the "fuzziness" was gradually decreased, allowing for names with less and less similarity, until a search with results was returned. This way, every search produced at least a starting point for identification, and at best an immediately usable result.

Manual Reconciliation
---------------------
In order to establish links between our text entries and geonames entities, we had to determine with some amount of research which modern location corresponds to the text entry in question. To facilitate this process, responses from geonames were transformed into GeoJSON files and saved, then pushed to github with other changes from the geocoding process. Since GitHub automatically maps GeoJSON files, this allowed us to look at the results of our searches on a map, so that we could more easily identify correct matches. When a confident match was found, the IDs for the text and GeoNames entities could be put into a script to add this geographic information to our dataset. These connections were made on the basis of information from a contemporaneous atlas, (both [a version from Harvard](http://pds.lib.harvard.edu/pds/view/21684875) and one from [Etomesto.ru](http://etomesto.ru/karta389/)), [Russian Wikipedia](https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/), the [Great Soviet Encyclopedia](https://ru.wikisource.org/wiki/%D0%91%D0%BE%D0%BB%D1%8C%D1%88%D0%B0%D1%8F_%D1%81%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B5%D1%82%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B0%D1%8F_%D1%8D%D0%BD%D1%86%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F), the [Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedia](https://ru.wikisource.org/wiki/%D0%AD%D0%BD%D1%86%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%87%D0%B5%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%81%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%8C_%D0%91%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%BA%D0%B3%D0%B0%D1%83%D0%B7%D0%B0_%D0%B8_%D0%95%D1%84%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%BD%D0%B0), and other sources detailed on our [Resources Used page](#).

